all right hello and welcome everyone it
is almost the end of the year hooray
it's December 16th 2019 this is the IPF
escort implementations weekly sync I am
your host unsure pleased to see you
again if you are here then please put
your name on the attendees list in the
hackpad it is linked from chat here and
if you are here and have some async
updates that you'd like to share with
people then please do paste them at the
bottom of the document and that will
allow people to go through them at their
leisure asynchronously yeah all right
you know the deal I said every week so
let's do this thing and go through our
initiatives so we can update each other
on what it is we're actually doing this
okay so first up there is upcoming or
and/or ships releases and things Oh
first of all wait before that note taker
Jake is all ready yep thank you sorry
what's up out of this Thank You Jacob
all right yeah upcoming and shipped
releases we have does anyone have
anything to report here I can say that
there should maybe be if we can get it
out the door a pre-release of the new
JSI PFS release with the async/await
stuff with the unix FS 1.5 stuff before
christmas if we can do it we're going to
try hopefully hopefully well does anyone
else have any anything else to share in
upcoming or shipped releases or any
questions
but there's already some fix DHT bugs
but I don't think that that means that
there's a an imminent go IP of us are
see appearing someone on the go
investing can publicly state better yeah
I heard the test grant had already
identified many bugs that's super cool
alright that's part of a long
progression of successes yeah and then
finally there will be a go ipfs release
at some point soon okay in which case
let's move on to upgrading testing and
inferring process is Jim you cool well
Stephens here now hey hi sorry my
network I don't know what happened
subscibe mister yes we Santa Fe
well we're currently working on it the
aim is to watch it on Wednesday or at
least launch a version the people can
use it won't be feature complete but it
should hopefully be usable by everyone
most what you do yeah that's basically
the status update we're switching we're
having a few last-minute changes we'll
switch away from doctors form to
kubernetes backend because dr. swarm
just doesn't support nodes for us we can
sort of get it to run several hundred
but like we want at least a thousand and
it falls over pretty quickly
and yeah we're just I already have a
bunch of kinks and oh and you asked me
to run this meeting if you'd like me to
take over again
easily yeah go for it yeah sorry
it's not me doing oh not much
a bit of this forms just on the PR for
Goa Kiev has where the the PR to add sub
main buildings of the main support I
posted proposal to
like proposal to wrap three types of
gateways into like human-readable
configuration options because we
basically got like half base gateways
sub domain gateways and also the
enhancing get gateway when you can point
a domain at Goa TFS and it will act as a
gateway for that specific hostname so
those are like three types of gateways
and we sort of should make it much
easier to for people to both house not
only like of gateway subdomain gateway
for example our partner sites in flora
would like appreciate to make it easier
but also like people who just want to
house their own website they don't want
to return reads off from anything else
just to be safe they just want to like
hard code just this domain and they just
want to put go FS so I was like thinking
how could we like come up with easy
configuration option and I erased it
here mostly because it what we agree in
that BR would also need to be
implemented in JPEG your head so it's
like good to have alignment on what we
want to achieve here so people will
opinion go down see well if you have
time about your opinion I will try right
now we're really trying to like on such
grounds so you can take a look in the
meantime I anyone can look I don't have
anyone else here has worked much with a
gateways hectare here now I mean Alan
would only have good feedback look
sounds like you can assign three
reviewers and whoever proves that well
assign me as a reviewer and I might show
up if I can I will do my best
good I can't promise anything not this
side of the year anyway I
okay I'm just really signaling pickup
that's still on hold does the lippy did
we refactor is almost over so we should
be kicking that off again or Lina sure I
penis pity emerged a thing yeah yeah the
testing is testing on the live network
is still not working because the DHT
variations are too large to get like
meaningful data we'll see how it goes or
well write some test contests but either
way you end up saving a whole bunch of
time I sort of turns out you also get
bonus time cuz even if it takes just as
long she's our kid I saw her pub/sub
there's like Ennis normally you save it
you save the bit swap shop because
you're already connected to the note who
has your data so that's that's handy and
that's all I can ask things for I assume
at least a little while sounds good
let's see the next one is I think basic
data stores yeah a performance yeah
we're just sitting there block on reveal
a Dirk could you take a look at it if
you have time this week yeah thank you
migration to multicast keys in block
storage is it because I said that still
locked on last time yes all right
it's well updates started August dark
yeah so the so there's sort of like a
long-running
PR against Kauai PFS was oh sorry
against bits with some changes I'd be
making a proven concept that so I'm
quoting those over to JavaScript lands
and getting some very fast and useful
reviews from Allen's so thank you for
that and so I'm just going to continue
on that this week
in terms of communicating out the those
changes in that work is that is that on
track for having having a draft blog
post but I ended week or my finalized
one I'll check it and I'll make sure
that's on track okay we have a massively
perfecter updater
yes so we did a pre-release last week of
lupita P so that is out started
integrating that in bit swap that PR is
good to go just pending the lip you
release I found a few annoying issues
with Libby to be that needed fixed so we
fixed those did another pre-release but
aside from that the bit swap update went
pretty easily so and I think that's like
the most complicated thing that's using
web p2p and ipfs so the rest should be
hopefully straightforward yeah lots of
example updates lots of Doc's updates
we've been like revamping the Docs a lot
as part of this refactor blushers been
putting in a lot of work on that looks
good so it should be easier for people
to find out how to use lipeh to be in
the future yeah and then this week we're
working on more Doc's trying to get the
release candidate out this week and
we're working on integrating with JSI
PFS to find any other bugs or issues we
should fix separately to be awesome nice
in in Jess I first learned I have opened
all of the PRS I care to open on this
quest they are sitting there ready for
ready for review there's one big there's
two big ones actually and many smaller
smaller ones if you can have any time to
help out and review those the plan is to
get all of the little ones merged into
the master PR and then get all of the
tests and things all fixed up so that
that can get them that can get merged as
I said before we're aiming to
pre-approve least before the end a year
I've written a migration guy so people
moving to the new
API can figure it out a lot easier if
you would like to review or read that
and offer up your comments or tips or
changes and that would be greatly
appreciated as well and that will go
along in the release notes for the
release when it finally comes out there
is also blog post in draft is not nearly
ready
I did I read about half of what I
actually wanted to write and not even
the core bit that I really wanted to
mention but it is is there and you're
welcome to read it if you have time but
I am behind on that just so you know but
that's jess IVFs learned basic await
refactor thank you to Jacob and the
lipids beatings for actually shipping
the Lib Peter free stuff that's amazing
and and also for continuing to help me
actually now integrate that into J's
IVFs is very kind and and very helpful
so thanks ok I think that's all the
updates we have one designer proposal
from Eddie yeah
so we'd like to use we like to advertise
multi hash business that of the ideas in
the DHT we can do this without breaking
any it ends in bus the PR is there it's
been looked at by people the only thing
blocking it is like just making some
decisions about or a single decision
about how what what variety of keys we
will allow people to store in the DHT
this is largely irrelevant because there
are only two types of keys anyone is
actually storing so we need to just make
a decision so they can merge some code
and let people use things I think this
is mostly blocked on loop to be team and
just a good time if they're saying yes
let's do this I'll try to pin down rule
and decision on it
I don't like we could do a design review
but I don't know if there's going to be
any objections yeah I like I don't care
as long as one of the four options
listed in the bottom of the document are
selected
okay was it actually I guess we'll pull
the room is anyone here interested in it
okay so the general puzzle is currently
we announce see IDs but see IDs and good
things like the codec and the CID
version but really all we care about we
were trying to find content is like the
actual data block itself so the proposal
here is to switch to announcing multi
hashes instead of CITS this would not
break anything for CID V zero because
the same thing CVV one might have spray
it but the DHT is starting such a state
anyway is that all no one will notice
and this will also mean that like as we
add data with will CID one in CID be
zero you'll still like the in the teach
you leaked the same so I wouldn't be
able to find the same thing that's the
whole point of this change see how the
proposal is basically announced multi
hash instead of or both dashes instead
of announce C IDs a secondary part of
this is also like on the server side say
we don't actually care what you're
announcing as long as it's like less
than 80 bytes we'll just accept your
announcements this way like we can
change this in the future in is the
notes whatever we want miss Li has any
key match to a peer ID for any kind of
like routing so if we sites like make it
have to come from all the hash weak or
specifically like if we try to like I
had a multi hash type we don't have like
it the entire DC to upgrade stuff like
that if that second part made sense
Peter yes
80 enough if we have 64 bit hash with a
variant graphics yes yeah so anybody's
yeah so if I calculate based on your 512
bits anyone yeah so if you factor bits
postman extra metadata I think it's what
is it yeah as long as you guys talk
about this that basically eight is like
way out there that we cannot cross it in
any possible ways it's it's not way out
there with quantum computers actually I
guess it would be way up there I mean
folks out there I'm more concerned about
512 is good but then we have all this
extra padding that comes in yeah 5
is 64 bytes Katy would give us another
16 bytes so that should be enough okay
yes I'm sounds great
okay well does any here actually want to
raise your hand if you want to be a part
of design meeting about this if you have
anything to talk about or do I just take
it to the bit meeting okay raise your
hand if you thinking shoes take this
slipper to be team or if I think should
okay excellent okay then we'll stick to
the pbteen so there's no need to
actually call a meeting here okay
the one reason why it might be useful to
have a meeting is to have a deadline by
which this decision will be made which
then unlocks this work so I think
regardless of whether or not an actual
meeting is scheduled setting a deadline
here would be really useful by which we
require action by the live EVP team time
block uh I all have to talk to you about
the deadline there I don't know what
yeah I'd like to say just like Wednesday
but yeah okay but basically like the FSM
Esme said yes let's do this yeah okay
boss on the side sent on no validation
as long as it's if this is if a decision
is made when when would you foresee this
being part of go like if s the version
of go I do this actually it doesn't meet
its it like next person so a diva's Rd
made the changes so I the interim PR so
yes next version yeah yesterday which
version of like what branch is going
into is it master stabilized we will be
merging master into stabilize and
merging of biscuit before the release
stabilize will become master and
everything it's in master will become
part stabilized
that's a lot of merges I okay it'll be
fun but we'll do it so a baby man over
just in some cases me if you look at the
past and say okay what was sex trying to
do and make them fit together that's the
ways okay
I think that covers that walkers masks
please create your okay ours this is I
assume from Holly yes please do it
please do not follow my example any of
these I will try to grade them as fast
as I can but if you're seeing me not
great in mind that's not an excuse not
to grade yours and then grade yours
nicob bug me okay
parking lot no questions parking lot
yeah so go piss a switch from scipy fest
more theaters to slash PDP multi errors
just beware mostly this thing so it's
still except it's like /ip fescue and
whatever has a multi editor but now it
it will by default return /p DB /q and
whatever I believe J s IP FST's also
does this right yes and it returns it by
default it when we release next it will
be the default but it's supportive
supported it for a long time as if it
really started using p2p addresses to
just go also support it at the moment
yeah yeah it's worth reading them it
just doesn't support it just doesn't
print them by default no such a panic
okay so we're on target attractor at
least at the same time that's good there
are some pr's in progress for obtained
documentation unfortunately turns out
our documentation is not versions along
with our code which makes it tricky but
yeah we kept their release we'll update
the documentation so they don't give
users is too much but a lot of people -
waiting for this for quite a while
shipped I seen a play jeaious adversity
someone our speakers that one was made
by sugar but I've added it because it's
cold and also Nerissa fighters companion
I've added it because I related links to
real it note just something any really
exciting changes minutes now when you
add start to write your first it in you
have UI if you had a nice if you add
files with from artifact companion you
can see those files in web UI
or they are using NFS yeah so by default
importer directory number fax and if you
like got a picture on a page and you
right click you've got an important
effect inside so it automatically copies
and when you import it automatically
copies the link to a public gateway to
that specific file or you don't need to
like try to make anything better for
sharing ok anything else no I think
there comes everything then please post
your a syncope that's right yes i can
speak too quickly to the IP f SD CTL
probably not too pretty when do it
justice but it's allowing us in Jeff's
have your first time that HTTP client to
remove a whole bunch of boilerplate in
in actually creating new nodes for idea
first the internals have been almost
completely refracted so and it's going
to allow us to spawn nodes significantly
quicker than we were before and and a
whole bunch of other updates like it's
streamlined the the options and the
interface and the way it works so it's
just going to allow us to create tests
and not only us but anyone else who's
using the module we're going to benefit
from this and it's gonna be a whole lot
more stable because of it so it's really
good work and you guys been working on
it for ages so just cute I am for for
that we just onions like yeah I'm one of
those flowers loud applauses for all of
the things all Hugo's word vitals new
long are you gonna make us sing as well
I think that's it for this meeting
see y'all know I guess obviously some of
you next week
actually Billy this is the last meeting
until 2020
everyone have wonderful wonderful winter
holidays hopefully we'll still see many
of your faces in in other meetings this
week but I have have a wonderful break
and see you all in January to see a
Balinese